hey this is presto Walker in the
following diagram if the red area
between a square and it's inscribed
circle equals the blue area between a
smaller circle and its inscribed square
what is the value of the large circles
radius divided by the small circles
radius
I want to thank you'll see for
suggesting a problem that inspired this
puzzle can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
we'll get started by considering the red
and blue areas separately let's first
determine the red area we'll draw the
center of the circle and the diameter of
the circle which spans two radii of the
circle the red area equals the area of
the large square minus the area of the
large circle the large square has a side
of 2r and therefore its area is its side
length squared which is the quantity 2r
squared the area of the large circle is
PI R squared this simplifies to be 4r
squared minus PI R squared which is then
R squared times the quantity 4 minus pi
so we've determined the red area now
let's determine the blue area in terms
of the smaller circles radius we'll do
the same thing from the center of the
circle will draw the diameter that spans
across the diagonal of the square this
has a length of 2 little R the diameter
of the circle is equal to the diagonal
of the square therefore the side length
of the square will be
an isosceles right triangle whose
hypotenuse is 2r the square side length
will be R times the square root of 2 the
blue area equals the area of the small
circle minus the area of the small
square this will be pi little R squared
minus the quantity little R times the
square root of 2 squared this simplifies
to be PI R squared minus 2r squared
which equals little R squared times the
quantity PI minus 2 we now know the blue
area in the red area so we set these two
areas equal to each other we then take
this equation and divide both sides by
PI minus 4 and little R squared this
gives us the ratio of the radii squared
and we then take the square root of each
side to get that the large circles
radius divided by the small circles
radius is equal to the square root of
the quantity PI minus 2 all over 4 minus
PI and this is approximately one point
one five three did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can also support me on patreon you can
also follow me on social media either at
mind your decisions or at presh tal
walker depending on the site